2013 The New Peugeot 308 Coupe RCZ
 
In a line-up of Peugeot models  coupe RCZ. From the exterior design alone is reflected just how elegant Peugeot on this one. However, we see a Peugeot 308 is still more entertaining. The front face of the 308 new modern design traits is Peugeot. Air hole big trapezoidal symbolizes high performance. While apply fog lamp and daytime running light on a pair of air holes make it look sexy.
Masculine impression at side represented by design rims is 17 inches. Her minimalist without much piece strokes. Simple impression continues to the rear. Just accent diffuser with large pair tailpipe which indicates he is a hot hatch a true. Modern Aura and toned continues into. Semi bucket seat-pulling designed is an example. The dashboard looks some of the trappings of luxury with chrome. Panel instrument looks sporty and MIDS in the middle of the dashboard monitor readability.
Modern audio system and control AIR CONDITIONER dual zone is a testament to the seriousness of the Peugeot refreshing view. In addition to the parking brake lever is no longer the power window. In its place is the electric shutter blind to show panoramic roof that provides spaciousness enjoy morning sunlight. Rear cabin only, while 308 ordinary if than with Peugeot 207 Sedan is still better. Accent silver and new upholstery give color feel different. Peugeot 308 made it out of the traditional Peugeot design. More Asia faced a fond look attractive and stylish.
Peugeot 308 share machine with, GADGET, JAGUAR. Unit 1.598 cc 4-cylinder turbo power generating torque of 156 dk 240 Nm. channeled through automatic transmission 6-speed, power given it feels exciting. Move to mode S (Sport) if you want to super more power. Or if you want more thrilling, turn off Electronic Stability try Program (ESP) and move the shifter to M (Manual). Transmission bit 091, inhibiting response channel power.
However, the potential energy is still held considerable. Acceleration 0-100 km / h reached in just 9.3 seconds. Fun, fuel consumption into the moderate level. For the same city with RCZ, which is 8.9 km / l. For tolls, he noted 17.8 km / l, less than RCZ is 18.8 km / l. Factor is higher engine speed 200 rpm when cruising 100 km / h to be one cause.
Dings soft suspension is their hallmark. And it's also a sense of the te-308. However, it is not up to reduce the 308 agility. Indeed, he uses the Electric Power-assisted steering. However, the mechanisms related speed makes no sense in losing speed. Therefore, the 308 feels comforting when maneuvering fast and able to follow the will of the driver. Increasingly compact hatchback body style makes it easy when moving point. Combined engine performance, it is a fun car daily.
 
Related Car posts:
Porsche Boxster New V12-engined 8 Speed Ready Launch
Aston Martin Vanquish New GT Speed Car Lighter
BMW M6 Coupe and Convertible (F12/F13) Vitals And Performance
2013 The BMW 640i Gran Coupe Spesification

