Donate
"I have found that among its other benefits, giving liberates the soul of the giver." Maya Angelou
The primary goal of Healing the Inner Goddess Retreats is to provide a unique opportunity for women to heal from trauma.   Often when a woman is traumatized, she has to start over rebuilding her life.    One woman may have fled a domestic violence situation and left her home with only her dignity and the clothes on her back. Another woman may have suffered a difficult divorce in which she was left penniless.  Yet another woman may have spent every cent she had fighting cancer while also fighting a health insurance plan that refused to cover necessary treatments.
The goal of the Healing the Inner Goddess Scholarship Fund is to provide scholarships for women in need of healing, but who currently lack the financial success that others have attained.  There is no obligation for repayment, the scholarship is donated freely and from the heart.  However, it is encouraged that someday, after the recipient has graduated from a Healing the Inner Goddess Retreat, and has reached her own level of success, that she will consider donating to the Healing the Inner Goddess Scholarship Fund to help another woman have the same opportunity.  It doesn't matter if she is only able to donate $10 to the fund, if it is given from the heart, it will help to heal another woman, and in turn help her to continue with her own personal growth and success.
If you would like to help build the Healing the Inner Goddess Scholarship Fund, any amount given from the heart is gratefully appreciated and will be used solely to fund a space for a woman in need.  If you are a woman interested in applying for a scholarship, contact Laurie for an application. Please note, a scholarship funded space will not be available until enough money has been raised to provide this space.
A portion of the proceeds from each Healing the Inner Goddess Retreat will be donated to the Healing the Inner Goddess Scholarship Fund.  In this way, each paid participant is also helping to sponsor a woman in need to be able to attend a Healing the Inner Goddess Retreat.
Donations may be sent to: Healing the Inner Goddess Scholarship Fund, PO Box 254, Bayside, CA 95524.  Please note: make check payable to Laurie Monroe LCSW, note "scholarship fund" on memo part of check.
Or send a donation via PayPal:

