THE SCHOOL OF THEATRE @ OCU
The School of Theatre prepares young theatre artists for a sustainable, professional life.  Our faculty inspire undergraduate students in a rigorous, disciplined, and collaborative academic and production environment.  Our program is grounded in the philosophy of putting theory into practice from the classroom to the stage to produce creative, culturally aware, and highly effective theatrical artists.
OUR CORE BELIEFS AND VALUES INCLUDE:
STUDENTS
They study in a professional training program that demands excellence in all areas. They are driven and disciplined in the development of their craft. They are highly motivated, hardworking, and leave OCU prepared for a life in the arts.
FACULTY
We are devoted to crafting a student centered environment that is collaborative, rigorous, and creative. We come from a diverse range of backgrounds in the theatre and entertainment industries. We are skilled mentors who continue our work in the profession. We are invested in the training and growth of our students.
CLASSROOM
Our academic program is founded on a rigorous curriculum that offers conservatory style training within the broader context of a liberal arts education. We create an environment that encourages the synthesis of the professional craftsperson with the passionate artist. Our union of the classroom with the stage provides an intense, active, training ground.
STAGE
We produce a broad and diverse range of styles and genres from the classics to current Broadway works in tiered levels of production values: from staged readings to student directed works to fully mounted mainstage productions. TheatreOCU's extensive production program reflects our value of producing live theatre as an integral part of the education of our students. Our connections to the profession provide another laboratory for our students to hone the skills they learn while focusing on industry standards from AEA to USA.
LEARN MORE ABOUT OKLAHOMA CITY UNIVERSITY

