Ballinakill Castle, Gloster House, Sacred Heart Convent You are in · RoscreaOnline · Tourism · History
Roscrea History Section
Ballinakill Castle The ruins of Ballinakill Castle can now be seen on the main Dublin-Limerick road (N7) about six kilometers on the Nenagh side of Roscrea. It is more of a fortified house than a true castle, similar to Cloncourse Castle. The exact date of the fortification is uncertain but is no earlier than 1580 when Pierce Butler of Paulstown bought land there.
The estate remained in Butler hands until they were dispossessed by Cromwell in the 1600's. The three storey fortified house has long been gutted and only the shell remains of this large building. What is most impressive about the site however, is not the house but the impressive bawn around it. A bawn is very similar to the curtain walls of a castle. The bawn at Ballinakill is still one of the finest in the country.
Gloster House
Gloster House is situated on the Roscrea-Birr road about 8-9 kilometers outside Roscrea. The Medhop family had originally been granted lands at Gloster under Royal patent by King Charles I. Few mentions of this family are made in history compared to their successors, the Lloyds. The Llyods first came to Gloster when Trevor Lloyd, a captain in King Charles I, married Miss Margaret Medhop in 1639.
She was the heiress to lands in Offaly and Tipperary and Trevor Lloyd acquired the lands from her. Further lands were assigned to Trevor Lloyd after the Restoration in 1666, in addition to the possibility of lands also having been assigned during the intervening Cromwellian era. The present day house was built between 1700 and 1720 but it is thought that a house existed on the site previously. The house was further enlarged and embellished in the 1720's and 1730's by the architect Sir Edward Lovett-Pearce. Throughout the late 18th and 19th centuries various Lloyds were elected to Westminster and also to the Irish Parliament before the Act of Union in 1800. The grounds of the estate were quite extensive and in 1871 the Lloyds held 4,536 acres of land, though nowadays only 120 acres are still part of the estate. The gardens are impressive with many man-made ponds and shrubberies. All the fountains work on gravity, with no mechanical or electrical parts. An interesting feature of the gardens is this triumphal arch flanked by two obelisks. It is not known whether this folly (architectural term for a purely decorative structure) was built to commemorate some event. It was thought to be built by Sir Edward Lovett-Pearce, the same man who redesigned the house in the early 1700's. The house perfectly survived the War of Independence, unlike the Leap Castle and Timoney Park, and was eventually sold by Major E.T.T  Lloyd in 1958 to a group of Salesian Nuns. They transformed the house into a boarding school for girls and holiday home for ladies. They built on large extensions in the rear of the house to keep as much of the house unspoiled as possible. In 1990 the school was closed and the ground sold to two separate organisations and was eventually sold to the current owners in 2001, who have been restoring the house after 11 years of non-use. Also the North-West wing is being rebuilt after it was demolished when the nuns had ownership of the estate. Convent Of The Sacred Heart It was in 1823 that the Parish Priest of Roscrea, Father O'Shaughnessy asked the Brigidine nuns in Mountrath to come and take charge of the education of the young girls in his parish. Three sisters, Sister Gertrude, Sister Magdalen, and a novice Sister Augustine came to Roscrea that year. They opened the first school in Rosemary Street but this was soon over flowing with students.
They then opened another house in Abbey Street and later Limerick Street. Soon after however the house on Air Hill was bought by the Community and the Brigidine Nuns moved there. The boarding school was opened shortly after moving to Air Hill. But the Brigidine Order was still small in Roscrea and was few in numbers so the Brigidine Nuns asked the founder of the Sacred Heart Order, Mother Barat, to establish the Order in Roscrea. In 1842 Mother Gould and Mother Croft established the Order officially in Roscrea. Some of the Brigidine Nuns joined the Sacred Heart Order while others moved back to Mountrath or other convents. Throughout the 19th century the Sisters of the Sacred Heart made extensions and improvements to the original building on Air Hill. In 1863 the first National school was built but this was made part of the Secondary Boarding School when a new Primary school was built in 1962. The boarding school finally closed down in 1976 while the Primary school is still open. Part of the old Convent is now used in the Roscrea 2000 Leisure Complex.

