Jimmy Flintstone '67 Dodge A-100 Panel Van Body   #24: $18
1/25th Scale '67 Dodge Panel Van Resin Body. Suggested donor kit - Little Red Wagon Kit. Body comes unfinished, unflashed& unpainted. Postal shipping in U.S.A. includes tracking. S & H for international buyers based on location. Payment due in 7 days. Email any questions before offerding. No refunds - all sales final. Thanks for your interest and check out my other sales and my store. There's way more in the store.
Please DO NOT make your Paypal payment until I have sent you an invoice with the correct shipping to your area.(International Sales) On multiple purchases, the shipping calculator on the payment page is not correct most of the time.
If you are purchasing more than one item, you will need to request an invoice from me with the adjusted combined S&H for all your items. For combined shipping to apply, all sales must be paid for at the same time with the combined invoice that I have sent you, otherwise, your orders will be sent as separate transactions and I am not responsible for you over paying on S&H.
If you have an address change, you must send address corrections/changes through  and Paypal. If you do not send changes/corrections through  and Paypal, I cannot guarantee that it will arrive at the correct location.
5.6% tax on Wisconsin  ORDERS
International shipments will not be marked as Gift on packages as it is illegal and punishable by fines and/or imprisonment. International buyers are responsible for all customs fees (if any) incurred by their home country for overseas purchases. Please research your country's duties & taxes prior to offerding.
There may be customs duties, taxes, or tariffs imposed by the destination country which you may have to pay. The amount depends on the value of the merchandise being imported. These charges are in addition to the shipping costs quoted you. I am not responsible for these charges. You are responsible for any duties, customs fees or other taxes as determined by your country. They are not a part of the shipping charges.
Although rare, Customs may hold your package without notice for as long as 6 weeks. If they should hold your package, there is nothing that you, us or either of our Post Offices can do until the package is released. There is no further tracking from USPS once your item leaves the states, all I have is the Customs number. I have no control over this situation and any grievances should be taken up with your Customs office.
SHIPPING AND HANDLING As for the shipping and handling prices, please be aware that it includes box cost (for most applications - not all), packaging cost (i.e. plastic bags, bubble wrap, tape, etc.), and labor to package your item up securely.
If for some reason you are not satisfied with your purchase, please do not leave negative response or low DSR ratings. Please contact me first and allow me a chance to fix or resolve any problem you may have with your transaction.


