Pike County Times .com Online!
Welcome to Pike County Times.com
This online news website is owned and operated by Becky Watts. The Editor can be reached at 770-468-7583 or at editor(at)PikeCountyTimes(dot)com. Pike County Times is a website for citizens to keep up with local events and stay informed about Pike County government. It began on November 13, 2006 as a watchdog on county government and has turned into an online newspaper.
If you enjoy reading Pike County Times, consider buying an advertisement for your business or sending a donation to support the only free online newspaper in Pike County. Donations can be sent to: The Pike County Times, PO Box 843, Zebulon, Georgia 30295. Click here to donate through PayPal. Thanks for supporting Pike County's only free online newspaper!
Officer's Tragic Death Reminds Georgia Motorists to Obey Move Over Law
State Reiterates Strict Adherence To Lifesaving Law
ATLANTA - In just 4 days, 3 Atlanta-area police officers have been hit by passing motorists while assisting others in their official duties. Tragically, one of those officers lost his life.
The Henry County Police Department's Officer Elgin McDaniel, was killed Nov. 12 after being struck by a hit-and-run driver while assisting another motorist who ran out of gas on the side of the road. Sadly, Officer McDaniel did not survive his injuries. And just 3 nights before on Nov. 9, two Carrollton police officers were hit by a motorist while investigating an existing pedestrian crash scene.
That's why the Governor's Office of Highway Safety (GOHS) is strongly recommending that ALL Georgia motorists re-familiarize themselves with the state's Move Over Law.
What is the Move Over Law? In effect since 2003, it requires drivers to move over one lane, if possible, whenever an emergency vehicle on the side of the road displays its lights. If traffic is too congested to move over safely, the law requires drivers to slow down below the posted speed limit and be prepared to stop.
"I was so saddened to hear of Officer's McDaniel's tragic death," said GOHS Director Harris Blackwood. "The Move Over Law exists to protect emergency personnel in exactly these types of situations. The bottom line is that moving over or slowing down for emergency vehicles is the law. It's not a suggestion and disobeying it will cost you three points on your license and a fine up to $500."
To reduce the number of injuries and fatalities in Georgia, legislation allows local judges to set Move Over Law violation fines as high as five-hundred-dollars to help modify careless driver behavior.  Penalties in some states range as high as a thousand dollars or more, with more states considering "move over" legislation like Georgia's. And yet there are still far too many close calls from too many distracted drivers in Georgia and across the country.
"Georgia's Move Over Law was enacted to protect our first responders as they go about performing their life-saving duties alongside our roads," said Colonel Mark W McDonough, Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Public Safety. "For the safety of everyone - first responders, other drivers, victims and towing personnel - drivers should remain alert while driving and move over when approaching a flashing emergency light. If you can't move over, then slow down well below the posted speed limit and be prepared for a sudden stop.
For more information on Georgia's Move Over Law, visit www.gahighwaysafety.org.
Submitted 11.13.12

