Lucas Talks Clone Wars Movie 
Plus Live-Action series delayed and more.

Star Wars fans will have to wait a bit longer than originally expected for the upcoming live-action Star Wars television series, says George Lucas. Lucas spoke to comingsoon.net at the ShoWest convention and revealed that he doesn't expect the series to debut until 2010 now, instead of 2009. "The live action show probably won't start until 2010," said Lucas. "We're working on it now, doing the scripts and everything."
Lucas was at ShoWest to promote the Star Wars: The Clone Wars animated movie, which will precede the ongoing series of the same name debuting this fall. Lucas reiterated that when it comes to the animated series, "It's not that episodic," adding, "some of the episodes are stand-alone and some are two, some are three, some are four [parters], and there's no cliffhangers. It's not like the current vogue of 24 and The Wire and stuff where you actually have to watch the entire series in order to understand what's going on. This is an old-fashioned episodic show."
As for The Clone Wars movie, Lucas said, "We looked at it on the big screen and it looked so beautiful and great that we said, 'Gee, we can make a feature just like this.' So we did and got all the people, got all the stuff and said, 'Let's make a feature.'"
Lucas has said he will do 100 episodes of The Clone Wars, and noted, "We have one year finished, we're in the middle of the second year. I've written the third year. We expect this to go on for at least five or six years." Lucas also noted that the animated series will be presented in widescreen.
Both Star Wars series are being completely independently produced by Lucasfilm, with Lucas only recently making a deal to air The Clone Wars on the Cartoon Network. When he was asked about putting so much work into the shows, including future seasons, without knowing he had a commitment for them to air on a network, Lucas replied, "Yeah, well I'm going to do a hundred shows. I'm going to do it no matter what they do, so obviously, I want it to stay on the air a long time."
Anthony Daniels will be reprising his role as C3P0 on The Clone Wars, providing the voice for the character. However, Lucas said fans shouldn't expect other actors to return from the films, saying, "No, no. I mean, because it's a TV show, it's something that goes on and on and on and on, so it's not really designed to have a lot of the old actors back," adding that scheduling on TV makes it "impossible, because TV, it's very hard. You have to basically be on-call every day."
