 
 
Capitol Records will on April 11 release the Beatles' "Capitol Albums Volume 2," the companion to a 2004 collection that featured the group's first four U.S. album releases. The new edition sports "The Early Beatles," "Beatles VI," the "Help!" soundtrack and the American pressing of "Rubber Soul," all of which were originally released in 1965.
As with the first boxed set, each track is presented in both stereo and mono mixes. Out of the 92 individual tracks, 82 are appearing here in versions previously unreleased on CD. Each album is housed in a sleeve replicating its original LP artwork.
"The Early Beatles" boasts the stereo debut of such favorites as "Twist and Shout," "Please Please Me" and "A Taste of Honey," as well as the first CD appearances of 1963 simulated stereo mixes of "Love Me Do" and "P.S. I Love You." This is the lone album represented in the box that did not reach No. 1 on the Billboard album chart, peaking at No. 43.
"Beatles VI" offers the CD stereo debut of five tracks and the mono debut of four others, plus the first release of Capitol's duophonic mix of "Yes It Is." The "Help!" soundtrack includes five instrumentals from the film, plus five of George Martin's original 1965 stereo mixes. "Rubber Soul" also offers the first CD appearance of Martin's 1965 stereo mixes.
The release of the new box is timed to coincide with the 41st anniversary of the Beatles' reign over the top five slots on the Billboard pop singles chart with "Can't Buy Me Love," "Twist and Shout," "She Loves You," "I Want To Hold Your Hand" and "Please Please Me."
Here is the track list for "Capitol Albums Volume 2":
"The Early Beatles":
"Love Me Do"
"Twist and Shout"
"Anna"
"Chains"
"Boys"
"Ask My Why"
"Please Please Me"
"P.S. I Love You"
"Baby It's You"
"A Taste of Honey"
"Do You Want To Know a Secret"
"Beatles VI":
"Kansas City"
"Eight Days a Week"
"You Like Me Too Much"
"Bad Boy"
"I Don't Want To Spoil the Party"
"Words of Love"
"What You're Doing"
"Yes It Is"
"Dizzy Miss Lizzie"
"Tell Me What You See"
"Every Little Thing"
"Help!":
"Help!"
"The Night Before"
"From Me to You Fantasy" (instrumental)
"You've Got To Hide Your Love Away"
"I Need You"
"In the Tyrol" (instrumental)
"Another Girl"
"Another Hard Day's Night" (instrumental)
"Ticket To Ride"
"The Bitter End / You Can't Do That" (instrumental)
"You're Gonna Lose That Girl"
"The Chase" (instrumental)
"Rubber Soul":
"I've Just Seen a Face"
"Norwegian Wood"
"You Won't See Me"
"Think for Yourself"
"The Word"
"Michelle"
"It's Only Love"
"Girl"
"I'm Looking Through You"
"In My Life"
"Wait"
"Run for Your Life"
 
 

