Five Best Sushi Restaurants in Houston, Texas
 
Sep 28th, 2009
Sushi and Japanese restaurants have spread to the city of Houston like no tomorrow and with sushi there is no middle ground you either love it or hate it.
 
On this topic
BCS Busters: The Final Stretch
BCS to Play-Off: Which Would Be Better?
BCS Bowl Projections 2009: Who's Going Where?
Texas Hold'em: The Hand Guide
Oregon Drivers Licenses Laws Impact Landlords
Sushi and Japanese restaurants have spread to the city of Houston like no tomorrow and with sushi there is no middle ground you either love it or hate it. The following are the best sushi restaurant in the areas between the inner loop, Galleria, Rice and Highland Village and Montrose.
Oishii: This is a tiny restaurant located near the Greenaway Plaza at 3764 Richmond but it gets packed really fast especially during lunch time and during happy hour as they have a great deal where you can buy one item for $4.00 and have the second free such as getting fried squid and six small pieces of dynamite roll for the price of one.
Miyako Kirby: Miyako has a few different locations in the city but the best one is the one on Kirby at 3901 Kirby Drive. Here you can choose to sit at regular tables on one side and Japanese style on the other side of the restaurant. Their happy hour is good as you can get some of their sushi rolls for half the price and $4.00 martinis and mojitos and they also have a reverse happy hour that start at 9:00 P.M and lasts untile closing and this gives you a thirty percent discount on your bill.
Osaka: This place has also two locations in the city but a more modern one is located in the Montrose area at 515 Westheimer. The service is friendly and if you go there enough times the staff will know you by name and your order, and they also bring an appetizer and dessert on the house to you.
Ra: This restaurant is a trendy sushi bar and it is always crowded in the evenings and during the weekends and it is located at 3908 Westheimer in the Highland Village area. The crowd is young and professional for the most part and there is always an upbeat music going on, the place resembles a mix of a club and a restaurant but the sushi is great and sitting at the bar and people watch can be entertaining as well.
Ginza: this is a real traditional Japanese restaurant and the staff wears the kimonos as well and the food is fresh and the service is unique. The restaurant is located at 5868 San Felipe in the Galleria area and if you want to try real authentic Japanese food this is the place to go.
 
More from this channel
Nando's - It Won't Let You Down
East London Restaurants: Delicious Food At Affordable Prices
Blue Frog in Mumbai
sabrinacareer
Follow
Send me a message
 
 
More by sabrinacareer
Massa's Seafood Grill in Houston, Texas: A Very Brief Review
Candelari's Pizzeria in Houston, Tx: A Very Short Overview
Grooves Restaurant in Houston, Texas: A Brief Review
 
Share on Twitter
No comments
Waah! No comments... Post one, please!
Post a comment
Please login to comment
You can use your Bukisa account or login via Facebook.
Get help
|
About us
|
Blog
|
Contact
Please read our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy | User published content is licensed under a Creative Commons License except where otherwise noted.
© Copyright 2008 - 2012 Webika Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
0.3962 7.59MB
 
 
 

