Revealed: Why your office colleagues and neighbours are getting to see the World Cup action seconds before you 

Graham Smith UPDATED: 09:43 EST, 29 June 2010
With the World Cup and Wimbledon both in full swing, it's been the burning question of the summer in offices and bars up and down the country.
Just why do certain televisions broadcast live sports, or for that matter any live programme, seconds earlier than other sets?
In offices, football fans are constantly annoyed by colleagues screaming or groaning seconds before their TV catches up - while those watching in pubs or in back gardens have their viewing ruined by boisterous neighbours.
It kind of takes the excitement out of the World Cup - and rather makes a mockery of the term 'live coverage.'
Big match: Why do some TVs broadcast live events seconds before other sets?
So what's the explanation, and why is it always the crumby televisions that are ahead of the pack?
The answer lies both with the television being watched and the method of broadcast it is receiving.
Coding delays are the most common cause, both in your TV set and at the broadcaster's end.
At home, digital equipment contains software that decodes the broadcasting signal. A general rule of thumb is the more detail in the signal then the longer it takes to decode, thereby causing a short delay.
For this reason, viewers watching via an analogue signal - or with their aerial lead plugged directly from the television into the wall as has been the way for decades - will most likely receive their signal first. Their 'live' broadcast is likely to suffer a delay of a second or less.
This is why those watching on older, analogue TVs will most likely be a few seconds ahead of their high-definition counterparts.
Almost live: Coding delays in your television set and at the broadcaster's end are the most common cause
Those watching on hi-def televisions, however, will most likely be
watching events last due to the extra time spent decoding their high
quality signal.
However it's at the broadcaster's end where the delays really build up.
Each company has its own method of encoding digital signals and these take various lengths of time, although most within a couple of seconds of each other.
Likewise, it also makes a difference whether you're receiving your signal through
Sky, Virgin, Tiscali or any other of the UK's numerous digital
providers.
Each provider again has individual ways of decoding a broadcaster's digital signal, some taking longer than others.
Jos Hirst, a lecturer in audio technology at Salford University in
Manchester, said: 'A digital signal needs to be decoded on whatever
equipment you're watching it on.
'Decoding on your television can make a small difference, but it's at
the broadcaster's end where delays are most likely to take place.'
By the same token those watching sports events online also have to contend with possible tiny delays while a signal travels through an IP network.
With so many options to watch television now available, where you stand in the hierarchy of receiving live broadcasts is difficult to pinpoint.
But, as a guide, the more high quality the broadcast, the longer the broadcast delay.
