David Lee Donates $25,000 to City Of Oakland's Thanksgiving Dinner | THE OFFICIAL SITE OF THE GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS
 
 
 
​
 
Warriors Forward David Lee Enables The City Of Oakland's Thanksgiving Dinner With $25,000 Donation
Dinner to Serve Holiday Meals and Provide Services to Combat Hunger and Alleviate Homelessness
As part of the Warriors 15 Plays for the Holidays, forward David Lee saved the day for the City of Oakland's Department of Human Services, Communities United Committee, Community Action Partnership and the Emergency Food Providers Committee by donating $25,000 to continue their annual city-wide event to feed seniors and those who are homeless and/or low income. Heading into the annual event funds were unavailable to continue the dinner until Lee stepped up and donated to help provide a free meal and entertainment to more than 2,000 low-income families, seniors and homeless individuals.
"I have always been lucky enough to have Thanksgiving dinner with my family. It's always been something I have looked back on and had good memories of, and to allow other people to have that same joy is something that is really special and I'm happy to do it," said Lee. "I'm excited to continue the tradition of the City of Oakland's Thanksgiving Day meal for those in need and for senior citizens. It's wonderful to be a part of it and give back to the community in Oakland."
The 21st Annual Thanksgiving Dinner will be held on Tuesday, November 20, 2012 from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at the Oakland Marriott City Center, 1001 Broadway, Oakland, CA, 94607. Lee will be attending the event at Noon to help serve meals to those in attendance. At the Annual Thanksgiving Dinner, the free turkey feast will provide a nutritious meal and entertainment to more than 2,000 low-income families, seniors and homeless individuals while providing them the opportunity to obtain a winter coat/jacket if needed. This volunteer-operated event brings out the best in our community and it is supported by donations, large and small, by hundreds of neighborhood volunteers - in a spirit of giving and fellowship. Just $12.63 will provide a meal for one guest and $25 per family.
"We are grateful to David Lee and the Golden State Warriors for making this event a reality," said Susan Shelton, community housing services manager, "His sponsorship means the world to us and allows us to continue our good work."
In addition to Lee, major sponsors of the November 20, 2012 Thanksgiving Dinner are the City of Oakland's Department of Human Services' Hunger Program,  Community Action Partnership, Oakland Marriott City Center, and the many concerned citizens of Oakland and the surrounding Bay Area.
The Golden State Warriors 15 Plays for the Holidays community outreach initiative, part of the NBA's Season of Giving, helps brighten the lives of local families and youth during the holidays. Each of the Warriors 15 players will participate in at least one event during the holiday season to help those in need in the community.
 
 
Copyright © 2012 NBA Media Ventures, LLC. All rights reserved. No portion of NBA.com may be duplicated, redistributed or manipulated in any form. By accessing any information beyond this page, you agree to abide by the

