Hedge Fund Accounting Jobs
Hedge fund portfolio managers depend on up-to-the-minute account data, balance sheets, asset valuations, and other financial information in order to formulate investment strategies and execute trades, and individuals in hedge fund accounting jobs are critical to ensuring that this information is available when needed, and monitoring and organizing the flow of money through the firm.
Hedge fund accounting jobs include maintaining general ledgers, calculating net asset values, generating financial statements, and keeping records of all transactions.  People in hedge fund accounting jobs may also be in charge of regulatory compliance, as well as providing reports on fund performance to investors.
Hedge fund accounting jobs require both strong preparation in accounting and familiarity with the operation of hedge funds and alternative investment structures in general.  Most hedge fund accountants hold accounting degrees from business schools at recognized universities.  Many have several years of experience in the finance industry as well, and prior experience as a hedge fund accountant is considered highly advantageous.
Salaries for hedge fund accountant positions start around $60,000 depending on firm and location, and may increase to as much as $400,000 or more, after some years of experience and depending on the location and the performance of the firm.
Latest Hedge Fund Accounting Jobs Listings
Find More Hedge Fund Accounting Jobs
Position Company Location Posted Hedge Fund Accounting Business Analyst Analytic Recruiting New York, NY 09/07/2012 Working knowledge of General Ledger/Fund Accounting systems, Profit-and-Loss calculations, Accounting for Derivative/Fix ... fund structures are required. At least a BS in Accounting or Finance is required but a higher level of... More Capital Markets & Accounting Advisory Services (CMAAS) Manager PwC Houston, TX 11/16/2012 Technical accounting focus areas include financial instruments, business combinations/ purchase price allocations, conso ... accounting, financial reporting, and capital markets accounting topics, especially the following areas within a... More Investor Services/Hedge Fund Administration Representative SS&C Globeop Harrison, NY 12/15/2012 We are looking for an Investor Services/Fund Administration Representative for our Harrison, NY location. To apply for this position please visit our website at http://www.globeop.com... More Hedge Fund Senior Tax Manager Execu|search Group Livingston, NJ 12/10/2012 Hedge Fund Senior Tax Manager Location:Livingston, NJ Salary:$120,000-$180,000 Experience:6.0 year(s) Job Type:Full-Time ... Accounting / CPA 6+ years of partnership tax experience in the hedge fund space Detailed understanding of FIN 48 princip... More Hedge Fund Accounting Officer Kforce Finance and Accounting Princeton, NJ 12/25/2012 Officer. Job Description: Maintain primary portfolio, accounting and taxation records for a variety of on-shore ... calculation of management and performance fees payable to hedge fund managers Prepare tax lot accounting reports and... More Hedge Fund Registered Investment Advisor Compliance Professional Resources Global Professionals New York, NY 12/18/2012 Hedge Fund\\Registered Investment Advisor Compliance Professional

Resources Global Professionals is currently seeking ... experience across many disciplines -- finance and accounting, information management, human capital, supply... More Hedge Fund Accounant Eric-louis Associates New York, NY 12/25/2012 Well Known Hedge Fund seeking 2 Fund Accountants Description Prepare financial and accounting records Cash and position ... financial analysis Qualifications 4-year college degree in Accounting or Finance Knowledge of Microsoft products... More Senior Hedge Fund Accountant (Job #108556) Unity Search Dallas, TX 12/17/2012 candidate for this role would have 2-6 years of hedge fund accounting and/or audit experience; CPA (or pursuing) would ... accounting activities for multiple domestic and off shore hedge fund partnerships. In addition, this role will serve... More Hedge Fund Operations Analyst Confidential Hedge Fund New York, NY 12/09/2012 Due Diligence team. The analyst will be responsible for the Hedge Fund operational due diligence process in assessing ... achievement (GPA 3.5+) required* 0-2 years related audit or accounting related internship or work experience* Prior Big... More Capital Markets & Accounting Advisory Services Manager PwC Mclean, VA 11/03/2012 Technical accounting focus areas include financial instruments, business combinations/ purchase price allocations, conso ... accounting, financial reporting, and capital markets accounting topics, especially the following areas within a... More
Find More Hedge Fund Accounting Jobs

