StrataLiner NET (TM) Composite Board Technology by The Woodbridge Group速
Recognized for Improved Performance 

MISSISSAUGA, Ontario, Jan. 10, 2011/CNW/ -- The Woodbridge Group速 has been recognized as a finalist in the 2011 Automotive News Pace(TM) Awards, for its StrataLiner NET(TM) Composite Board products. This innovation provides new levels of material property and product performance for a growing list of composite board based products.
The key to StrataLiner NET(TM) composite board's success, centers on the use of Woodbridge GreenLite(TM) technology.  GreenLite(TM) low mass solutions utilize intelligent applications of lean polymers, and industry leading processes, to improve a product's physical characteristics. Additionally, BioFoam(TM) technology can be incorporated to offer industry leading levels of renewable source inclusion, without performance compromise. Combining the benefits of these technologies, StrataLiner NET(TM) components offer many product advantages over competing materials. Through this innovative product category, Woodbridge is providing its customers a system cost savings, thinner cross-sections, superior design flexibility, enhanced surface quality, improved acoustics, and up to 40% mass reduction.
The complete Stratas product line, offers automakers greater opportunities to value engineer a growing list of components, based on these advanced composite board capabilities. Other Stratas(TM) products that benefit from GreenLite(TM) and BioFoam(TM) technologies include StrataLiner NXT(TM) boards, to deliver low-profile cross-sections as thin as 2.5 mm, and StrataPlush(TM) coverstock laminate foams used to improve acoustics and appearance in overhead systems.
"Woodbridge also offers StrataForm(TM) technology, to provide a low cost shell forming alternative that delivers improved material distribution, and results in better strength to weight ratios. This innovative shell forming approach has proven to be very effective for headliners, package trays, air ducts, sunshades, pillars, deck lids and trunk liners," states Domenic Sinopoli, Director of Sales and Product Manager, Slab Foam Business Unit, The Woodbridge Group.
The Woodbridge Group速 maintains its commitment to continuous improvement and clean technologies. Through collaboration with its customers, Woodbridge offers StrataLiner(TM) products, to deliver improved cost, weight, strength, package space and acoustical properties, for a growing list of composite board based products.
The Woodbridge Group and its partners in The World Polyurethane Alliance operate 62 facilities in 21 countries, as global leaders in the development and production of polyurethane and expanded polypropylene products. Automotive applications include components for seating, structural support, interior soft trim products, headliner systems, cargo management solutions, and engineered products for occupant protection and acoustical management. Woodbridge also offers contract assembly and sequencing and supply chain management, as well as a full range of value added services including engineering and design. For more information, please visit www.woodbridgegroup.com
速 are registered trademarks and (TM) are trademarks which are either owned or used under license by Woodbridge Foam Corporation.
