Transfer of Sapporo
Sapporo is served mainly by the New Chitose airport, 40km (25mi) southeast of the city.
Flights connect Sapporo with most of the major cities on Honshu (Main and largest island in Japan) and Okinawa. There are regular flights to Tokyo, Osaka or Kansai, and international destinations include Guam, Seoul and Amsterdam. Chitose Airport is accessible from Sapporo by kaisoku (rapid train) or bus. The airport has its own train station and bus centre, as well as car-rental counters. From the airport, there are bus services to various destinations on Hokkaido. Taxis can be found at stands in front of the airport.
Sapporo is linked with the rest of Hokkaido by an extensive network of long-distance bus services. The main bus station is next to Sapporo station; access is via the underground shopping plaza. Some buses also leave from the Chuo bus station and Odori bus centre near Odori-koen. Two of the fastest rail connections from Tokyo are the Hokutosei Express, a direct 16hr sleeper to Sapporo, and a combination of the shinkansen (bullet train) to Morioka followed by a tokkyu (limited express) via Aomori (10hr)
Public Transport System in Sapporo
The subway is the most efficient way to get around Sapporo. The city of Sapporo is served by an extensive public transport system consisting of 3 subway lines, JR (Japan Railway) lines, a streetcar route and a substantial bus service.
The three subway lines, serving a total of 46 stations throughout Sapporo, link the main business, commercial, and entertainment areas as well as the central railway station, to all parts of the city. Regular streetcar and buses cover routes not serviced by the subways and convenient shuttle buses link shopping areas and event venues around the city. Various one-day or pre-paid passes covering all these services are available, making traveling within Sapporo even cheaper and more convenient.
©JNTO
Streetcars operate regular return trips on an almost circular route between South 1 West 4, and Susukino, via the Mt. Moiwa area. Get on at any of the 21 stops enroute and pay a flat rate of 170 yen as you get off. A discount rate of 150 yen is available in the mornings before 7:00am.
Although certain knowledge of the local geography might help when using buses, this simple and cheap way to travel enables you to see more of the city. Simply board the bus through the rear door, take a ticket from the machine and pay your fare as you get off. A numbered fare display at the front of the bus allows you to calculate your fare from the number on your ticket.
Wave and they will stop. Base fares start around 600 yen, increasing in 80 yen increments every 330 meters or so. Fares are displayed on a meter in the front of the cab and although increase by 20% after 11:00pm. Tipping is not customary.
JR Sapporo Station
©JNTO
Although Sapporo's population surpasses 1.8 million, the city center is compact and most central facilities are within walking distance. In summer, a pleasant stroll through Odori Park links many hotels and conference venues with the business and commercial areas. Extensive underground shopping malls and walkways connect major buildings with subway stations and provide shelter in Sapporo's more severe winter weather.
Unique rubber tires make Sapporo's subway system one of the quietest and cleanest in Japan, if not the world. Services start from early morning and continue until midnight. One-day passes are available for 800 yen and "multi-purpose" pre-paid cards connecting the subway with streetcar and bus routes are available for 1000 yen. "Donichika Kippu" is a one-day pass, only usable on Saturdays and Sundays, sold for 500 yen.
 

