Wanda Jackson - Bluesfest 2013 Sideshows
Wanda Jackson - Bluesfest 2013 Sideshows Wanda Jackson @ Factory Theatre
Saturday 23 Mar 2013
Are you going to this event? CLICK HERE!
Email to Friend
Tour Name: Wanda Jackson - Bluesfest 2013 Sideshows Artists: Wanda Jackson Date: Sat, 23 Mar 2013 Venue: Factory Theatre 105 Victoria Road Marrickville, Sydney, NSW, 2204 Send a Ticket Enquiry Find more events in Sydney Price: TBA Tickets: Presale Thursday 8 Nov 9am. General public onsale Monday 12 November 9am from http://www.bluesfesttouring.com.au"She's like my rockabilly Etta James. I love her, she's so brilliant. I don't think `Rollin' in the Deep' would exist if it wasn't for Wanda Jackson" - Adele Widely known and respected as the Queen of Rock & First lady of Rockabilly, we are delighted to announce that Wanda Jackson is not just appearing at Bluesfest next easter, but is also embarking on sideshow dates in several major cities. Wanda has influenced generations of both male and female performers, and is now playing the best ever shows of her life! Wanda's latest rediscovery in 2011 saw her team up with Jack White to produce her wildly successful album "The Party Ain't Over" and has since been working on her 31st studio album "Unfinished Business" with folk musician and Bluesfest performer Justin Townes Earle. The album features performances of Woody Guthries "California Stars" and Bobby and Shirley Womack's "It's All Over Now" that was released October 2012. Born in Oklahoma, Wanda first toured in 1955 when placed on a bill with none other than `The King' himself, Elvis Presley. The two hit it off almost immediately and dated on and off. Wanda has since mentioned that is was Elvis along with her father Tom, himself a country singer, who encouraged her to sing rockabilly. In 2009, Wanda became the only woman ever to be inducted into both the Rockabilly and Rock and Roll Hall of Fames (on recommendation of Bob Dylan, Elvis Costello and Bruce Springsteen). Throughout Wanda's 50+ year multi genre music career hits like "Tears Will Be the Chaser for Your Wine", "Fujiyama Mama", "Heart Trouble" and "I Remember Elvis", have landed her in the top of the country, rockabilly, pop and rock charts. Wanda continues to tour all over the world to sold out crowds of adoring fans, and now its our turn. If you can't make it to Bluesfest next Easter then be sure to see the undisputed Queen of Rockabilly when she hits your town.`Wanda Jackson positively killed with her set at Venue last Saturday. Volatile as nitro-glycerine, Jackson exudes charms, sexuality, sincerity and humble honesty; often in the same verse...Her voice is a true gift to humanity'.- Vancouver Weekly, September 2012 Event Type: Music & Clubs Genres: Pop and Rock Web Address: www.wandajackson.com Notify us of changes Add to Outlook Calendar Print

