$100 MILLION FEMA CONTRACT AWARDED TO FLUOR CORP TO LOCATE & INSTALL TEMPORARY HOUSING UNITS IN LOUISIANA 
09/08/2005 ALISO VIEJO, Calif., -- Fluor Corporation announced September 8, 2005, that it is supporting the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in response to the immediate needs of those impacted
by Hurricane Katrina.  The company has headquartered its operations with those
of FEMA in Baton Rouge, LA.  The value of this initial contract is up to
$100 million.
Fluor's work involves the location and installation of temporary housing
units in Louisiana.  The housing units will include electricity, potable water
and sanitary sewage facilities.
The company is also providing much-needed equipment, including vehicles,
satellite phones, GPS locators and laptop computers.
"The ramp-up to support FEMA represents an extraordinarily rapid and
comprehensive effort.  We are already mobilizing a vast array of resources and
are prepared to mount whatever further resources FEMA may require of us," said
Fluor Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alan Boeckmann.  "Providing local
jobs is a focus of our efforts, as we work with local contractors, suppliers
and the unemployed in the Gulf Coast area."
At present, Boeckmann said that approximately 400 Fluor employees are
already at work making plans for the temporary housing units.  This number is
growing rapidly.
During the past eight years, Fluor has supported FEMA on numerous response
efforts, providing technical disaster-recovery services for all types of
disasters, including earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and wildfires.  The
company has mobilized personnel for more than 125 task orders for over 80
domestic disasters.
"The immensity of this tragedy is at unprecedented proportions," said
Boeckmann.  "It is our commitment to do all we can as quickly as possible to
relieve the severe suffering the hurricane has imposed on the lives of so many
Americans.  We are proud of our service to FEMA and the relief these programs
have brought to disaster victims around the country, including those from last
year's hurricanes in Florida."
Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) provides services on a global basis in the
fields of engineering, procurement, construction, operations, maintenance and
project management.  Headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California, Fluor is a
FORTUNE 500 company with revenues of $9.4 billion in 2004.  For more
information, visit http://www.fluor.com.
Lisa Boyette, Media Relations, 949.349.3652
Source:
