The Indian government is correct in backing GMR in the Maldives row. 

It is the duty of any government to protect the interest of its nationals, inside the geographical boundaries of the country and outside it. Governments across the world intervene wherever there
There is no case for the government to support GMR Infrastructure in its controversial ouster from Maldives because it gives credence to the widely held view that it is croporates who
BACKGROUND READING
Editor's picks
The sheer anger of women after the Delhi gangrape shows what women are up against. This means we have to do something about our boys.
India and Russia are much closer now than ever before, contrary to perceptions that the Indo-Russian ship is sinking.
Are the DGPs obliged to act on what Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde says?
Abhishek and Aishwarya Bachchan, Salman Khan, Parmeshwar Godrej, Ranbir Kapoor, Gauri Khan and many other famous faces of Bollywood attended businessman Sunny Dewan's Christmas party held at his house in Bandra, Mumbai. Here are the images of the party.
The government has been rattled by the fact that the protestors managed to get within a minute's distance of the the country's top political executives, including the PM and the Defence Minister.
The guys at Google have taken the whole business of tracking Santa a whole lot seriously this year. For those you are wondering where Santa Claus is, check out Google's Santa Tracker.
The National Food Security Bill (NFSB), introduced in the Lok Sabha, will grossly interfere with the functioning of grain markets, resulting in higher leakages, chief of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) Ashok Gulati said.
Neena Gupta created a firestorm when she had a child with cricketer Vivian Richards. Now a designer in her own right, Masaba Gupta says she knows she could have had a rough childhood but her mom was always there.
Tendulkar is the highest run-getter and most-capped in this format of the game.
Revealing about how jurisprudence is sometimes the closet that hides political skeletons.
What happens if a picture or video of , say  the interior of Shastri Bhavan in New Delhi , where most  ministers have offices sit is published?
Dabangg 2 is a sort of sequel-lite: banking more or less entirely on its audience's enjoyment in the return of an already established character, with both they and he happy to revel in his already established tics.
Yesterday's post on the Delhi rape case generated a lot of heat among the readers and we got a lot of response for it. The responses made Vivek Kaul's belief even stronger that women will continue to be raped in India.
The thing about Modi is that people who hate him can't see anything good in what he does, and those who love him can't hear any evil about him.
Most buildings in Nariman Point are at least 30 years old and there is absolutely no new supply in the market.  These buildings are obsolete for many tenants, especially the newer economy corporates and multinationals
The moustache is back. Salman Khan is just the latest to sport one in Dabanng 2. And you don't have to be a cop to have a moustache. Is this the beginning of a new Bollywood - hair on upper lip and waxed chest?
