Work situation - coworker not pulling her weight (long)
Senior Member
Join Date Dec 2010 Location The Suburban Midwest Posts 1,197
Work situation - coworker not pulling her weight (long)
I've got a work situation I'd appreciate some suggestions on... I think some of you might remember I work on the import side of international transportation. Over the last few years, our company has gone through a lot of changes, which includes two mergers. We used to have two separate import departments - one for the transportation side, and another for the customs brokerage. But now the two departments have been merged and the transportation folks have to learn how to do customs clearances and vice versa. We have the import manager, who is the head of our department, and a licensed customs broker, who is in charge of compliance and all customs related thing, but it works out that she's #2 under import manager. The way things have shaken out, I'm sort of an unofficial #3. People are always coming to me for all sorts of help, I go a good bit of training, and I'm a take charge, go-getter type, and both manager and #2 come to me about things they don't go to other about. Once I get my customs broker license, I bet I'm made an official "lead" amongst the peons, of which there are 10. As a result of seven rounds of layoffs, some people leaving, and others being fired when they couldn't handle change, there are only three people who've been there longer than my 5.5 years. Two around 9-10 years, and then one at about 14 years. The 14 year veteran is the issue. I'll call her J. J is a woman in her late 50s. Her husband is eligible to retire from his job in about 2.5 years, and it's pretty much general knowledge that J is just biding her time until her hubby retires. She's a very nice lady, loves her hubby, kids, and grandkids. J has only held two positions her in long years with my company. She has very firm ideas about what she will do, and getting her to go beyond that is a major battle. There was one new thing we were required to take over maybe 5-6 months ago. It is very simple and quick, but J was freaking out about it and refused to do it, which resulted in other people having to do it. Mind you, we've been so busy for months that training has been an issue at times. Finally, I was sick of hearing people bitch about J not doing this one small thing, so I cheerfully herded her into my cube (while clearly I was not going to take no for an answer), sat her down, did several of this thing with her watching, provided her with screen prints and exact directions on what to do, and walked her through doing it on her own computer. She was shaky at first, but now does it with no problem. My currency in the department went up exponentially as a result of this. Fast forward to the past few weeks. J has been found nodding off at her desk in the afternoon for a few months. This happens at least several times a week. She sits right across the narrow aisle from me, so if I roll my chair back about 18" I can see her. Virtually everyone has reported the sleeping to the manager - and the #2. She's been talked to several times about it (I don't believe there is a health/medical reason for it). We are very busy right now and it's getting even worse as we go into the spring/summer/early fall peak shipping season (back to school/Halloween/Christmas stuff). Between Easter, my being off to take the customs broker exam, and spring break-type vacations, we're all under water. Virtually all of us are working extra hours and/or taking work home (remote connection into our system). This plus covering the desks of our coworkers who are out of the office. All of us formerly transportation people are doing customs clearances, except J.I'm about 20 steps ahead of everyone else since virtually my entire workload has been converted to me handling both transportation and customs clearance on shipments. At my own initiative. I had J watch while I did one recently and she nearly flipped out on me. She was shaking in her chair the entire time. I could almost smell the fear on her. I realize she doesn't learn as quickly as I do, but she's flat out refusing to have anything to do with anything new. J also will not work any hours beyond our 8-5, even in our busiest times. She also will not work through lunch. Ever. The #2 gal was watching me run back and forth between my desk and another one today and getting stressed out. I was way overloaded. I was finishing stuff that was half done when I was off the 30th and the 2nd for the brokers exam. I worked through lunch AND stayed an hour late. I'm off Thursday through next Monday, returning next Tuesday. #2 came over to me and asked about J. I made the novel suggestion that if J is going to keep refusing to learn the customs side, then J should take over much more of covering for those out of the office - things like answering emails, handing the transportation side of files, etc. #2 *loved* the idea and said she was going to take it to the manager, who was out of the office today. Heck, I'll take it to the manager myself tomorrow. Since I'm essentially the one "on the floor" I'd appreciate any ideas on dealing with J. The "come to Jesus" discussions are for the manager and #2. Above my pay grade. I've been tempted to wake her up when I've seen her sleeping, but I've not done it. Perhaps I should. Just a touch on the shoulder should do it. Everyone else in the department does their job and helps out when needed, and goes above board. J, nah. We all really like her and she's a super nice lady, but this not pulling her weight is getting very, very old. Wrapped up with this situation are my slowly, subtly increasing responsibilities. Some of you long-timers might remember the issues I had at my previous job. It's amazing what a group of mostly decent coworkers as well as a boss (well, two, when you include both manager and #2) who recognize your gifts/skills and encourage you to go beyond what you've done (such as the brokers exam, and both coming to me for my input - which I can ALWAYS be counted on to give!- on various things, being asked to do training, keep an eye on things on the floor). I'm now unofficial IT for most of our floor. They always come to be before going to IT. I'm the office's dictionary and encyclopedia combined (people love to try and stump me, and it's rare). A year ago, I wouldn't have even thought about even being a lead of sorts. But I've really come into my own lately. I'm not too terribly fond of changes myself, but I managed to cope with being out of my apartment for three weeks, the office moving a bit before that, finishing up my theological program, and studying for the brokers exam, all pretty much in the same stretch of time. Although there might have been a bit too much chaos when I was beginning to study for the brokers exam... Any practical, reasonable suggestions or input on how to deal with J appreciated, especially if you've dealt with something similar. Thanks!
The humane one: take her aside, tell her you're worried about her health as you've seen her falling asleep. I hope you can get into your kindest & best self to express that. Then I'd leave it.
"Ring the bells that still can ring.... forget your perfect offering. There's a crack in everything... that's how the Light gets in." ~Leonard Cohen
The humane one: take her aside, tell her you're worried about her health as you've seen her falling asleep. I hope you can get into your kindest & best self to express that. Then I'd leave it.
That was one of the possibilities I've considered. Guys would probably do something like take a picture of the sleeping person and post the picture somewhere, but public humiliation isn't an option (other than what she's exposed herself to by sleeping at her desk). It's an all-female department, if that makes a difference.
Last week, one girl was on the phone as someone else approached her from behind. It kinda looked like the person on the phone had nodded off. She was told, "I though you were pulling a J."
How very sad all around. What appalling disrespect... people becoming the butt of jokes in the workplace. Public humiliation should never be an option, in my opinion.
"Ring the bells that still can ring.... forget your perfect offering. There's a crack in everything... that's how the Light gets in." ~Leonard Cohen
I think you need to separate out two separate issues.  They may not feel separate, but in my opinion, you should treat them as such: 1)  J not pulling her weight/being resistant to change is an issue for her and the management to deal with, not you.  If you have found effective ways to coach her on new tasks and are willing to do that for her, you might consider offering to continue to do that, but make sure that it is something management knows you are doing and supports you doing (and gives you the necessary time to do it).  Other than that kind of friendly support, I would try to stay out of it.  In the past rounds of layoffs people have gone because they were resistant to change.  She may well be the next one on the chopping block.  OR, if your efficiency annoys people (yes, it happens) YOU might be the next to go since you are the one in your group with the least seniority at this point.  That's one reason why it might be in your best interests to take on the trainer role -- if they know you can train new people coming in, they will be more likely to keep you than someone who cannot adapt when it is needed. 2)  Job creep. Been there, done that, still trying to find another t-shirt.  Seriously though, you need to defend yourself and not let yourself get sucked into doing a bunch of stuff that is not in your job description UNLESS you really WANT to do that stuff AND you can get the new duties put INTO your job description relatively quickly.  It is wonderful to be the person everyone turns to for answers, but unless you guard your time very carefully that can result in you doing all the work while everyone else sits around and says "I don't know, ask Tradd."  Informational assistance is one thing, helping people learn to do tasks they are uncomfortable with is another, and doing the whole bloody thing for them because they are so darned slow/inefficient is something else entirely!  And it is a pretty slipperly slope from one to another.  So draw some lines in the sand, especially when you are busy, and be firm about your limits. I know office politics can be deadly, but I think being as nice and helpful as possible while being 100% sure to live up to your job description and your individual commitments is the best strategy.  Nobody likes a meany, and whatever her flaws J will probably appreciate any kindness you can show her, and others will notice, too.  But you also need to be sure not to let people walk all over you and take advantage of your willingness to help.  I don't get the sense that you are the doormat type, but given the responsibility creep you described above I thought it worth commenting on this point. If you have a performance review coming up, it might be a good time to specifically discuss what the company's plans are for you should you pass the broker exam.  Focus on yourself and what you can control. lhamo PS:  Are the changes J is resistant to related to learning/using new software or updating versions of software that she is comfortable with?  Because I have a similar issue when it comes to tech stuff, especially as related to things I am very proficient with already.  I pretty much get apopleptic every time DH tries to update my laptop -- because whenever he tinkers with it something seems to break, or get messed up, or the old keyboard shortcuts I am used to don't work any more, or whatever.  To him it appears I am an old stick in the mud who can't accept change, but there are certain points in my life/work schedule where I just don't want stuff messed with because I don't have the time/energy to get up to speed with a new system.  I usualy manage to swim prettty well in a "sink or swim" situation, but I have pretty serious anxiety attacks and am stressed out for some time until I adapt to the new setup.  For me this mostly seems to be tied to things tech related, but I can see how people who like routine and structure would be upset by similar changes in administrative systems, paperwork, etc.
"Seek out habits that help you overcome fear or inertia. Destroy those that do the opposite."  Seth Godin
So with all these mergers and 10 people doing the work of 15 (or whatever) were there good raises to go along with it for everyone? If she has been doing the same ABC job for 10 years 8-5 and suddenly (without raise) she is being asked to work ABCDEF plus out of the goodness of your heart and 'give it all for the company' add some extra hours in.......well, I can understand being frustrated and scared and not wanting to learn extra jobs.  And I'll go ahead (from personal experience) add in menopause and foggy brain and it's hard to learn something new and nodding off sometimes happens. Try to be an encourager, a guide, a teacher.  Go the proper channels when needed.   There is nothing wrong with gently nudging her and waking her up daily and asking if she is having a medical issue because you've noticed her nodding off daily.  Let the proper channels handle that issue as needed. Please remember that everyone approaches their job differently and are at a different stage in their career journey.  What may be an 'exciting career with potential' and what you want to focus totally on can be someone elses 'dreaded job' that they are just trying to make it through each day.  You certainally have shown on this board how much you love your job but to be honest I'd hate to do what you do for several reasons....not everyone can be a Tradd so don't expect them to be.  (and please forgive my spelling errors, menopause has stolen my spelling ability and my spellcheck disappeared on my toolbar and I couldn't run to you to be my dictionary today brain fog sucks ).
Float On: My "Happy Place" is on my little kayak in the coves of Table Rock Lake.
Lhamo, I'm not in danger due to seniority. Just the opposite. I'm #5 in seniority among the merged department. There are 5 people with less seniority than I do. The changes have nothing to do with software. Several of J's big customers have gone out of business or stopped shipping with us in the last several years. So she's got plenty of room in her workload. She consistently has the lowest file count of the combined department. She even resists when the manager gives her small (1-2 shipments a month) new customers that have simple requirements. Since I sit right across the aisle from her, I hear her complaining. All the time. In her "downtime" she looks at pics of her grandkids and emails back and forth with daughters-in-law who send her new grandkid pics (she talks about "so and so sent me a new pic, let me show you") While a lot of folks aren't necessarily happy with the changes, the manager understands that and doesn't mind us airing that some. However, J is the only one who is actively resisting and flat out refusing to learn or have anything to do with them. If she won't do the new stuff, then she should do some of the things that don't require the new stuff - but she won't do that. There have been raises, not just many. In 2009, we all had to take a week furlough due to the economy.
Tradd, this is really tough but may I suggest that you need to set some boundaries in your own mind between what you can and will do and what should be the responsibility of the two higher ups. You have to get your own head sorted out on this one first before you can talk to anyone else. A under-performing staff is management's responsibility.  A friendly coworker who is going through health changes can use some support  and suggested options for seeking assistance but that is it. If you do too much, IMHO, you will risk being seen as the one who reported 'J' as not pulling her weight/sleeping/resistant to learning while in fact you have been trying to help her.  Be careful of making sure you have accepted boundaries.  As a future manager you will need to know about this and demonstrate their use.
Since this person is not one of your direct reports, it sounds like a department meeting to redistribute responsibilities so everything gets done is in order.  Clear delineation of what's in her circle of responsibility/accountability will allow evolution to take its course.  If she can no longer perform her job responsibilities, management will be forced to deal with it. Aside from that, I'd humbly suggest drawing your own circle --- this is my job, these are my responsibilities --- and staying inside it.  Take a step back, out of the office politics, and look at it with fresh eyes.   Though she'd probably ruffle my feathers too, J isn't your problem.   If you have too much to do, or take on too much, then it's your responsibility to approach your manager and remedy it.  It's all about you, your life, your balance.  There are people in every organization who do not pull their weight to the satisfaction of their workmates, and they often become the focus of, "if only they would xyz....then my life would be so much better..."   They become sport for the others (it seems that's happening already) it becomes this snippy little pack mentality that can be pretty toxic, contributing to the overall stress.   If she weren't there and you had the same crushing workload, something else would be chosen as the Great Unfair, the reason for misery.  It has happened in every major organization where I've worked. In your shoes, I'd focus on you, and what you want your day to look like, and work with your manager to make it so.  (Who the other tasks fall to isn't your problem)   I'd answer questions honestly, and act with integrity. Just another perspective.

