Khloe Kardashian unveils hot new body on Greek Island getaway 

With Kim heavily pregnant, the "hottest Kardashian" title is well and truly up for grabs. Baby sisters Kendall and Kylie have been strong contenders, but we think the crown goes to 28-year-old Khloe Kardashian who wowed the Greek Island of Mykonos when she stepped out in a sexy black swimsuit on the weekend.
On location shooting the next season of Keeping Up With The Kardashians, the famous fam have been having plenty of fun in the sun, spending their weekend swimming, snorkelling and jet skiing off of a private yacht. Just the regular family vacation really.
It sounds as though Khloe needed the getaway, having reportedly been fired from her first TV hosting job on X Factor USA and working hard in the gym to sculpt her famous curves.
Up until now, Khloe has been known as the "biggest" of the Kardashian sisters but thanks to a new boxing regime and healthy eating, the reality star has shed almost 10kgs.
"I love to box," she told OK! magazine. "I've always boxed. I just love it. I'm good at it. I get the circuit really well.
"Like when they yell out numbers I'm really fast and good with it and it keeps me really entertained.
"I don't  get bored and you shed weight when you do it."
Siren sisters: Kourtney (left) and Khloe (right) chill out in Mykonos Image: Splash The former X Factor presenter also admits she's had a bit of help from trainer to the stars Gunnar Peterson.
"I've been working out with Gunnar but I've been doing like a lot. I switch it up because I get really bored. So I do either Pilates or I go to Equinox gym and I make sure I do cardio, if I don't do anything," she said.
Never one to shy away from a camera, KK made sure she took plenty of gorgeous holiday selfies. Check out these stunners:
Insta-babes: Khloe and Kylie pose for some holiday happy snaps Image: Instagram
Celeb babes in bikinis
Follow @NZTheFix TheFIX is now on Twitter! Join us as we share the hottest news, gossip, galleries and Lindsay Lohan sightings!
