Vacations don't actually make workers happier 
That's good news for hardworking Americans, who get no guaranteed paid breaks, unlike Europeans.

Aimee Picchi Aug 15, 2013 7:16AM
Visit Europe in August and it can seem as if the entire continent is on vacation. It's no wonder, given the mandatory time off workers get there, with the French guaranteed a whopping 30 days.
While Europeans' generous vacations can inspire either longing or ridicule in Americans, it's worth noting that there's no apparent correlation between paid vacations and worker satisfaction.
Italian workers, for instance, score lower than U.S. employees in satisfaction, yet they are given 20 paid vacation days per year, on top of 11 paid holidays, the Atlantic reports, citing research from Mercer and a worker satisfaction survey from Randstad.
The Netherlands, meanwhile, scores highest on worker satisfaction, yet it resides in the middle of the pack when it comes to European vacation time, the piece notes.
What explains the discrepancy? Dutch workers enjoy higher incomes than other European workers and have short work schedules. On top of that, they receive something called vakantiegeld(literally, vacation money) before taking a summer break.
Italian workers are dealing with a host of troubles, ranging from a shrinking economy to outrageously high unemployment rates for young people.
Why do American workers score high on satisfaction while lacking in guaranteed vacation? The reason might be simply that U.S. workers don't usually get firsthand experience with how Europeans live. Because most of us don't often witness French workers languishing on sandy beaches during August, it's not actually rubbed in our faces.
Satisfaction with vacation time scored relatively high in a 2012 survey of U.S. workers from Gallup. Nearly three-quarters of American workers said they were either completely or somewhat satisfied with the amount of vacation time they received.
So what bugs American workers? On-the-job stress and income, Gallup found.
Even when Americans get vacation time, they don't always take it. About 57% of U.S. workers had unused vacation time at the end of 2011, CNNMoney reports, using data from Harris Interactive.
Workers cited too much work or the fact that they didn't have enough money to travel. And when Americans do take a vacation, they are often still tied to work via smartphones or laptops.
Given that the concept of a vacation is increasingly foreign to the "no-vacation nation," Americans are apparently instead judging work satisfaction on issues like pay and flexible hours instead.
