Dannii's highs and lows 

This time last year Dannii Minogue was on top of the world. Now she's left X Factor, been dumped from the M&S adverts and been on the verge of a break-up with her boyfriend. What went wrong?
Dannii was on a high last December after her X Factor protégé Matt Cardle won the show, and Heat readers voted her the most popular judge, way ahead of Simon in second place and Cheryl in third.
So we were beyond shocked when she suddenly quit the series in May. Although she said things had ended amicably, behind-the-scenes it was a different story - Simon Cowell changed the audition dates at the last minute to suit Gary Barlow, the new head judge, forcing Dannii out because she'd already committed to filming Australia's Got Talent.
Thousands of fans demanded she be given her job back but there were no sour grapes from the charming Aussie, who reassured fans there were no hard feelings, even though she must have been gutted to leave.
"I'm disappointed that 'Team Minogue' can't be a part of the show again this year, but I'm not 'furious,' 'upset' or 'livid'; we simply couldn't make the dates work," she said in a statement. "The X Factor is brilliant and I've been the biggest fan since the first series. This year I will be watching the show from wherever I am. Can I still dress up at home?"
Not long after, M&S made the surprising announcement that it wasn't renewing Dannii's contract so they could concentrate on targeting older women. Sure, she might look like she's in her 20s but she's nearly 40 and a new mum - surely a lot of M&S customers fit that bill?
Add to that rumours that Dannii and her boyfriend Kris Smith were on the verge of a break-up, and it hasn't been a happy few months for Ms Minogue. First there were reports that he got a bit too close to a model on a photo shoot and then they had a public row on Twitter - Dannii wrote the cryptic message: "Never chase love. If it isn't given freely by another person, it's not worth having," followed by "Forgiving someone does not mean forgetting what they did. It simply means letting go of the hurt."
We were relieved when the couple released a statement saying they were committed to their relationship and for now, things seem to be back on track.
Of course, 2011 hasn't all been bad for Kylie's little sister. Baby Ethan turned one in July, and she recently admitted she's feeling clucky again. "There has been so much pressure from my friends who say Ethan needs a friend... probably not yet," she said this week. "But it is not out of the question."
Dannii's also won countless awards in the last 12 months including TV Personality of the Year, Style Icon and Celeb of the Year; she's released her own biography, My Story, and has a fashion bible, My Style, following in September.
