2011 Lexus IS 350 AWD first drive
Tweet 6
Less beast, more grip
By Michael Bettencourt, MSN Autos
Gravenhurst, Ont. - There are advantages to not being the top dog. Sure, the glory and glamour may not be as great, but there's often less pressure - whether it's major-league sports or luxury sports sedans you're talking about.
The Lexus IS 350, for instance, no longer has to carry the flag as the brand's most sporting four-door, a title it relinquished to the M3-baiting IS F, the so-called "Beast" in the mostly sheep-ish Lexus lineup.
This has led Lexus to shift focus and offer a more security-minded IS 350 for 2011, which now includes available all-wheel drive.
"The Beast is my favourite summer car of all," said Toyota Canada director Sandy Di Felice at a recent media drive event, implicitly admitting that the IS F's powerful engine and rear-drive-only combination may make some buyers as nervous in the winter as a newborn's parents.
And there may be a similar wariness for some with the less beastly but still powerful IS 350, which up to now has been rear-drive only, Di Felice admitted.
"Some buyers have had a hard time deciding between the higher performance of the 3.5L engine (of the IS 350), and the all-season confidence of all-wheel drive."
Since Lexus launched the first IS in 2000, it has been the brand's vehicle to challenge the sporting BMW 3 Series.
While there was plenty to laud dynamically, its small size, less opulent interior and busy, chronograph-style instruments drove Lexus to a more conservative approach in this current second-gen model.
Five years after its debut, despite its comfort and top-notch fit and finish, the interior's design is starting to show its age.
Design updated with LED headlights and LF-A supercar-like wheels
The shape of the IS largely remains the same for 2011, although this is not necessarily a bad thing. To these eyes, it still has some of the most attractive lines in its class.
That said, there's no doubt that it is becoming a tad familiar, just like the soon-to-be-replaced BMW 3 Series is.
New for this year are standard high-intensity headlamps highlighted by sharp LED lamps that accentuates the arrow-head design of the front end. New rims mimicking those of the $375,000+ Lexus LFA exotic car are also part of this year's freshening.
And unlike the 3 Series and C-Class, at least in major cities, you won't see your car on every street corner, so it'll also provide a bit of exclusivity within the class.
Interior comfortable, less so roomy or artful
The IS 350's interior focuses on comfort rather than style, managing to maintain a clean and polished look, though quite not artfully so. Lexus's push for minimalist modernity would work better if it wasn't going for the same thing five years running.
The IS does not offer the isolationist magic carpet ride of the similarly priced Lexus ES, but it's very good for the sportier end of this segment.
All the required trappings of a good $50,000 sport sedan are present and accounted for: leather, navi, push button ignition that prevents fumbling with the key to unlock the doors or get it started, a kicking sound system, and a host of power goodies.
But it also has a large hump that juts out into the driver's footwell, the all-wheel drive's transaxle making itself known to the driver's shins. Unless your feet are exceptionally large, you learn to adapt your right foot's movements to avoid it.
The addition of a trunk pass for the non-folding rear seats helps the IS offer a cargo solution to ski or hockey enthusiasts.
Lexus shied away from folding seats as they would have reduced the structural stiffness required to provide true sport sedan handling.
But combine this lack of a folding rear seat with its small-ish 378-litre trunk, and it becomes clear that the focus of the IS is more on performance than practicality.
It's a bit of a shame that Lexus didn't resurrect the SportCross hatch-wagon from the first-generation which offered greater practicality as well as fold-down seats.
We can only imagine how good it might look with the current car's graceful styling.
Fleet on the road, but starting to show its age
There's nothing wrong with the IS's 306-hp, direct-injected 3.5-litre V6; despite being carried over without change, its output is still close to top of its class, just behind the Audi S4, Infiniti G37 and Volvo S60 T6 making the IS 350 a leather-lined powerhouse.
The six-speed transmission is a smoothness-focused automatic instead of the more fashionable and responsive dual-clutch units, yet the IS 350's shift paddles react quickly when you really want to move.
The lack of a six-speed manual option somewhat tarnishes its enthusiast appeal, as does the lack of a modern torque-vectoring AWD system, which would have divided up the power not only front to back, but also left and right, to help handling as well as security. However, its 30/70 front-to-rear power split does help to keep the IS's handling more like the standard rear-driven car.
The IS was not involved in the brake pedal, steering or engine management recalls that prompted so many Toyota and Lexus headlines in the past year.
It has also compiled impressive overall reliability and crash test scores, garnering a "Recommended" rating from Consumer Reports, as well as a 2010 Canadian Black Book Retained Value award for its top resale value among entry luxury sedans.
In adding all-wheel drive to the options list, the 2011 IS 350 adds a welcome bit of winter confidence to the mix, and though the practicality concerns may not make the IS 350 an ideal car for single-vehicle families, those entranced by its looks will still find it a comfortable yet engaging sport sedan.
2011 Lexus IS 350 AWD
Price: $44,950 Type of vehicle: AWD compact luxury sedan Engines: 3.5 L, DOHC V6 Power/Torque: 306 hp/277 lb.-ft. Transmission: Six-speed automatic 0-100 km/h: 5.6 seconds Fuel consumption (city/hwy): TBA Competition: Acura TL SH-AWD, Audi S4, BMW 335i xDrive, Cadillac CTS4, Infiniti G37x, Mercedes-Benz C350 4Matic, Volvo S60 T6
PREVIEW SUMMARY
PROS
Availability of AWD helps up appeal as a year-round car LED front lights and LFA-style wheels retain sleek style Refined and smooth, yet still sporty
CONS
Big lump in the driver's footwell juts out noticeably Rear seats have a ski pass-through, but still no fold down capability Its age is starting to show in its interior and AWD system

