Early childhood sector gets S$30m boost 
Early childhood sector gets S$30m boost

SINGAPORE: The government is investing S$30 million in scholarships and awards over the next three years to boost the professional development of early childhood teachers.
It is also casting the net wider, making available the schemes to teachers from all registered kindergartens.
It has taken a load off the mind of 17-year-old Lin Qian Hui, who is a student at Ngee Ann Polytechnic.
She has received the Ministry of Social and Family Development (MSF) diploma scholarship, which covers her polytechnic course fees.
Lin said: "The scholarship serves as a great financial support and moral support for me in pursuing my passion as an early childhood educator. Being an early childhood educator has been my ambition since a few years ago."
She said the scholarship would help keep her motivated. "It also lets me know that the society values this career as an early childhood educator," she added.
She now stands to get more benefits -- the scholarship is being replaced with a newly-launched training award that offers more. For instance, the monthly study allowance goes up from S$300 to S$800.
Eligible students can apply for the new training award at the Early Childhood Development Agency (ECDA) website from August 30.
Existing MSF diploma scholarship holders can choose to switch to the training award from next year.
In addition, existing Ministry of Education (MOE) and Ministry of Social and Family Development (MSF) scholarships and awards for part-time diplomas, and degree and masters programmes will be brought together under ECDA.
The eligibility for these scholarships and teaching awards is also being changed. The schemes will now be extended to teachers from all registered kindergartens.
Currently, the MOE scholarships and training awards are restricted to teachers from non-profit kindergartens.
In another key change, recipients will be able to serve their bond in childcare centres and kindergartens.
Currently, if they choose to take on an MOE scholarship, they have to serve their bond in a kindergarten, while those who choose an MSF scholarship have to serve their bond in a childcare centre.
These scholarships and teaching awards will take effect in January 2014, and more details will be released over the next few months.
Dr Chan Lin Ho, director of professional development at the Early Childhood Development Agency, said: "We've had several focus group sessions with the sector, and what we hear is the sector really needs good people to join, and we know that.
"There are many young people who are interested in early childhood. In order to ensure that they stay in the sector and not leave after they finish the programme, we think that this scholarship programme, this grant, will help them to make a good decision, to say that whatever they study, they will have good support from the government."
Acting Minister for Social and Family Development Chan Chun Sing said: "We need to continue to attract sufficient people who are passionate about the early childhood sector, and to meet the manpower needs of the sector as we expand our capacity in the coming years.
"Second, our teachers must have the opportunities for professional development and upgrading to keep their skills current, and help fulfil their longer-term career aspirations."
The improved support is part of efforts to raise the quality of pre-school education in Singapore.
The Early Childhood Development Agency is also working on other initiatives, including building on the Continuing Professional Development Framework launched last year, which includes charting more systematic progression pathways and creating more courses.
ECDA is also in the midst of selecting operators to come on board the enhanced Anchor Operator Scheme while continuing to provide support schemes for non-anchor operators.
Getting anchor operator status will allow access to government funding.
The agency said it will continue to provide support schemes for non-anchor operators.
Last month, ECDA started the first tranche of such schemes, focusing on operators with a social mission.
It will be rolling out another tranche in September to focus on capability-building and infrastructure assistance.  - CNA/al
